>> Josh Long: So
we need to propagate our history.
We need to present to it the transcript
of our chat log on each request.
Otherwise it's going to completely
forget what we're talking about and
why we're talking about it.
It has no idea.
Okay, so the way we do that is by advising
this request with an advisor, okay?
So I'm gonna use a prompt
chat memory advisor, okay?
Okay, and
I'll say memory=newConcurrentMap,
oops, ConcurrentHashMap.
Okay, so it's going to be a map of
username to prompt chat memory advisor.
Each user will get their own advisor,
okay, it's multi tenant.
And so how would that work?
I'll say advisor.
Sorry, advisor and I'm going to look
up the current advisor from the map.
So this is a nice idiom here.
If you haven't seen this in Java,
I'm going to say this.memory.compute
if absent passing in the username
which is going to come in the path
variable there, string user.
So if it's there, return it.
If it's not, then create it.
And I'll just create it
brand new like that.
I'm going to use a new
in memory chat memory.
Okay, so I'll say advisor.
Voila.
That actually returns the user's
memory I'm using in memory here.
There's a JDBC one as well.
Let me see what the contract is.
Chat memory, I guess you have to add
the extra jar in the class path.
But there's a chat memory
you can use as well.
You can persist the state in
a SQL database, for example, and
you can also implement
the contract yourself,
you can see chat memory is
a pretty straightforward.
We just have to implement
these three methods.
Void, add, list of messages,
get a list of messages and clear.
That's it.
If you can implement that in terms
of MongoDB or DynamoDB or whatever,
then you can use that instead of this.
Okay, so I've got that.
Now let's just restart this thing,
go back to the console here.
My name is Josh.
Great.
What's my name?
Your name is Josh.
Hey, nice, I knew we were meant to be,
right, this model and me.
Okay, so that's clearly working good.
But still it's not.
I mean I can ask it anything, right?
I can ask it like to do math homework for
me, right?
This is not its stated purpose.
I don't want somebody just
using this endpoint as a.
And letting me ring up my
chatgpt AI OpenAI Bill Right.
I want this to be a focused, purpose built
agent of adoption for my dogs, right?
There's dogs that need to be adopted.
This thing can't be busy doing
people's math homework or
getting them to write code, right?
Did you see, like there's some.
A little while ago, you know, Amazon has
this assistant inside the Amazon Amazon
app or whatever, and somebody realized
that if you like, ask it in a certain way,
you can unset the prompt and
get it to write code for you.
It's supposed to be helping you
find products on the marketplace.
You know, like, we don't want that, right?
So what we wanted, and I'm sure they
did what I'm about to show you, but
it's just funny that that's a thing,
right?
What we want to do is give our
model an overall system prompt.
A system prompt informs
the overall tone and tenor.
It informs what we're expecting
it to do in the in frames,
the thing we're expecting it to do, right?
So that it gives us a response
in terms of that system prompt.
So I happen to have a system
prompt over here, okay.
And I'm gonna cut it and then copy it
to the clip, I'm sorry, you know what?
That's wrong, dog, better.
Okay, I'm gonna dog it to
the clipboard there and
paste it into my system prompt,
okay, var system, okay?
And out here I can configure,
you can do this anywhere.
Actually, I could have done
the system prompt actually here.
Why not?
Let's do it there.
I could do the system prompt here.
So right after the user or
right before the user, it doesn't matter.
Put it there.
If you want,
I'm going to specify a system prompt.
Or you can specify a default system prompt
that is available to all people who
have a chat client.
You can make this a bean.
By the way, like I said, it's not
uncommon to have different models.
So you can have five different chat
clients, one chat client that's talking to
the really fast model, one that's talking
to the more fully featured one, etc.
Okay.
And so you can have bean definitions
that are just chat clients.
Okay.
So there's my system prompt.
It says you are an AI powered assistant
to help people adopt a dog from
the adoption agency named Pooch palace,
with locations in Antwerp, Seoul.
I'm sorry, there you go.
Minneapolis, Seoul, Singapore,
Paris, Mumbai, New Delhi,
Barcelona, San Francisco and London.
Information about the dogs
available will be presented below.
If there's no information,
then return a polite response suggesting
we don't have any dogs available.
Yeah, so let's try.
We're going to ask it to find Prancer.
Remember, that's our dog.
So do you have any
neurotic dogs?
Look, so it says, I'm sorry,
I don't have specific information about
neurotic dogs available at Pooch Palace.
If you're looking for a particular
type of dog or have other preferences,
please let me know and
I'll do my best to assist you.
Okay, well,
at least it's talking about Pooch Palace.
It's acting like it's an employee, you
know, an assistant, somebody who can help
you at our fictitious dog adoption
agency called Pooch Palace.
But it still doesn't know about our dogs,
you might be forgiven for
thinking that you're talking to a real
person who, for whatever reason,
is unable to bring up the inventory
of dogs in the shelter, right?
So what we want to do is to
give it access to that data.
Where does that data live?
It lives in our database, right?
So I don't want to give it
access to all the data.
I mean, let's be clear, right?
Like in this case,
it's a little bit of a silly thing, but
I'm standing on principle here.
So if I click on this hit, okay,
go there, that, that, that.
Okay.
It's only 18 records, okay?
I mean, with the models that we
have today, like you saw Gemini,
Google's Gemini model,
it supports a 2 million context window.
So when I talk about a context,
when I talk about that size, what that is,
is it's a measure of the complexity
of the request or the response.
It's both of them combined, right.
Of the interaction with a model.
Okay.
It's called a context, and
there are tokens.
There's a token count that you
spend each time you make a request.
So the complexity of the request can
stem not just from the input, but
also from their output.
You could say, write the first 500
pages of War and Peace, right?
It's only a one sentence request, but
the response is going to be enormous.
Or I could give it the text of War and
Peace and
say, find the uses of the word lake.
I could give it a large body of requests
and it'll give me one number back.
Find the frequency, right,
it doesn't matter, they both count towards
the complexity of the request,
the token count of the request.
So it's our job to
reduce that token count.
If you're using an on device model
like Ollama, that's free, Right.
You can run that in your local machine.
You don't have to pay anybody.
But even running on your local machine or
in your own data center,
even though you're not paying
somebody to host it, and
even though it's more secure, maybe for
your financial services use cases,
you still have to pay to buy the machines
and pay the electricity and all that.
There's a cost to it.
So you're very strongly incentivized to
reduce that cost by reducing the amount of
tokens consumed.
So, yes, Could I send all the data in
my piddly little 18 row database here?
Sure, but should I?
No, of course not, right?
We wanna send only the results that
are germane to the request at hand.